swift-ui-1.md, before:

### Swift-UI intro: 
It's a declarative layout system based on VHZ (Vertical/Y, Horizontal/X, Depth/z) stack. It's inspired form the web design world. Focus on cross-platform apple ecosystem app.
* live preview canvas and drag and drop views on the preview/canvas  area. When dropped, the ui code will be generated by xcode.
* Provide easy code (modular) reusability. cmd + click any stack and select the "extract into sub-view". It will create a struct an call that from the main view. Params can be supplied same way as struct constructor.
* Project Catalyst : convert ios app into mac app (simply checking the mac checkbox on root project config)
* Initially provides 2 structs, 1 for the actual content (ContentView) and other is for the preview/canvas area as Content_Previews
* Device/Canvas Preview frame can be changed in the previews function by using => ContentView().previewDevice(PreviewDevice(rawValue: "iPhone SE"))

### Basic Project Structures
* Directory:
    - ProjectName : Source file for the App
    - ProjectNameTests : Unit Tests
    - ProjectNameUITests : UI Tests
    - Products : 

* Source Directory :
    - <projectname>app.swift : Entry point, @main
    - <anything>view.swift : View File, consumed by @main
    - info.plist : project configuration file
    - Assets.xcassets : Asset files (images, icons, etc) 
    - Preview Content : Generated by xcode for app's preview
### Login-Intro App Docs:
- String to Binding<String> : $string
- @State : @ is attribute in swift
- some : It is used together with a protocol to create an opaque type that represents something that is conformed to a specific protocol. 

```swift
// The following 3 function signatures are identical.

func wash<T: Vehicle>(_ vehicle: T) {
    // Wash the given vehicle
}

func wash<T>(_ vehicle: T) where T: Vehicle {
    // Wash the given vehicle
}

func wash(_ vehicle: some Vehicle)  {
    // Wash the given vehicle
}
```
- CGFloat : NSObject version of a floating point num

### SwiftUI Basics:
- Starting Point: <ProjectName>App.swift is the starting point which is denoted by @main attribute before the struct name. The struct inherit App protocol.
```swift
import SwiftUI

var isUserLoggedIn : Bool = true;

@main // starting point
struct LoginIntroApp: App { // inherit App protocol
    var body: some Scene {
        WindowGroup {
            if isUserLoggedIn {
                MainView()
            } else {
                LoginUIView()
            }
        }
    }
}
```
- Scene : protocol Scene acts as a container for a view hierarchy. It's lifecycle is managed by the system.
- WindowGroup: It's a Scene that represents a group of identically structured windows or view hierarchy. It behaves differently on ios, macos and ipados. Each window created form this maintains independent state. 
- Views : Views are placed inside body. ie: var body: some View { //views are placed here }
    - Layout Views: VStack, HStack, ZStack, Lazy V/H Stacks, Spacer, etc.
    - Control Views: Text, Label, Button, TabView, NavigationView/NavigationLink, Label, etc
    - Paints Views: Angular/Linear/Radial Gradient
    - Other Views: Image, Group, Capsule, Container Relative Shape, Empty View, Menu etc.
- Icons : There are many system icons which can be listed/viewed using "SF Symbols" developer app (need to install it from apples's developer website). And can be inserted into views using : Image(systemName: "NameOfTheIcon") 

### Background Color:
Background color works with ZStack (depth stack). So everything needs to be inserted into it.
```swuft
ZStack {
    Color(.lightGray)
        .edgesIgnoringSafeArea(.all)
}
```
### Navigations:

```swift

@State var goToMain: Bool = false;

var body: some View {
    
    NavigationView {
    
        VStack {

            /**
            * Navigate on state change
            */
                
            NavigationLink(
                destination: MainView(),
                isActive: $goToMain,
                label: {
                    EmptyView()
                }
            )

            /**
            * Click Navigation
            */
                    
            HStack {
                    List {
                        Spacer()
                        Text("Register")
                            .overlay(
                                NavigationLink(
                                    destination: RegisterView()) {
                                    EmptyView();
                                }
                            )
                            .foregroundColor(blue)
                        Spacer()
                    }
            }
                    
        }
    }
    .navigationBarHidden(true)
}
```

### TabView:
```swift
import SwiftUI

struct MainView: View {
    var body: some View {
        TabView(selection: Selection ) {
            DashboardView().tabItem { Label(
                title: { Text("Label") },
                icon: { Image(systemName: "house.circle") })
            }
            ProfileView().tabItem { Label(
                title: { Text("Label") },
                icon: { Image(systemName: "person") })
            }
            SettingsView().tabItem {
                Label(
                    title: { Text("Label") },
                    icon: { Image(systemName: "gear") })
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Swift Language Checklists
- Delegation: var body: some View {}
- Lambda Syntax
- Generics

Commit message:

ios-study swift-ui custom font

swift-ui-1.md, after:

### Swift-UI intro: 
It's a declarative layout system based on VHZ (Vertical/Y, Horizontal/X, Depth/z) stack. It's inspired form the web design world. Focus on cross-platform apple ecosystem app.
* live preview canvas and drag and drop views on the preview/canvas  area. When dropped, the ui code will be generated by xcode.
* Provide easy code (modular) reusability. cmd + click any stack and select the "extract into sub-view". It will create a struct an call that from the main view. Params can be supplied same way as struct constructor.
* Project Catalyst : convert ios app into mac app (simply checking the mac checkbox on root project config)
* Initially provides 2 structs, 1 for the actual content (ContentView) and other is for the preview/canvas area as Content_Previews
* Device/Canvas Preview frame can be changed in the previews function by using => ContentView().previewDevice(PreviewDevice(rawValue: "iPhone SE"))

### Basic Project Structures
* Directory:
    - ProjectName : Source file for the App
    - ProjectNameTests : Unit Tests
    - ProjectNameUITests : UI Tests
    - Products : 

* Source Directory :
    - <projectname>app.swift : Entry point, @main
    - <anything>view.swift : View File, consumed by @main
    - info.plist : project configuration file
    - Assets.xcassets : Asset files (images, icons, etc) 
    - Preview Content : Generated by xcode for app's preview
### Login-Intro App Docs:
- String to Binding<String> : $string
- @State : @ is attribute in swift
- some : It is used together with a protocol to create an opaque type that represents something that is conformed to a specific protocol. 

```swift
// The following 3 function signatures are identical.

func wash<T: Vehicle>(_ vehicle: T) {
    // Wash the given vehicle
}

func wash<T>(_ vehicle: T) where T: Vehicle {
    // Wash the given vehicle
}

func wash(_ vehicle: some Vehicle)  {
    // Wash the given vehicle
}
```
- CGFloat : NSObject version of a floating point num

### SwiftUI Basics:
- Starting Point: <ProjectName>App.swift is the starting point which is denoted by @main attribute before the struct name. The struct inherit App protocol.
```swift
import SwiftUI

var isUserLoggedIn : Bool = true;

@main // starting point
struct LoginIntroApp: App { // inherit App protocol
    var body: some Scene {
        WindowGroup {
            if isUserLoggedIn {
                MainView()
            } else {
                LoginUIView()
            }
        }
    }
}
```
- Scene : protocol Scene acts as a container for a view hierarchy. It's lifecycle is managed by the system.
- WindowGroup: It's a Scene that represents a group of identically structured windows or view hierarchy. It behaves differently on ios, macos and ipados. Each window created form this maintains independent state. 
- Views : Views are placed inside body. ie: var body: some View { //views are placed here }
    - Layout Views: VStack, HStack, ZStack, Lazy V/H Stacks, Spacer, etc.
    - Control Views: Text, Label, Button, TabView, NavigationView/NavigationLink, Label, etc
    - Paints Views: Angular/Linear/Radial Gradient
    - Other Views: Image, Group, Capsule, Container Relative Shape, Empty View, Menu etc.
- Icons : There are many system icons which can be listed/viewed using "SF Symbols" developer app (need to install it from apples's developer website). And can be inserted into views using : Image(systemName: "NameOfTheIcon") 

### Background Color:
Background color works with ZStack (depth stack). So everything needs to be inserted into it.
```swuft
ZStack {
    Color(.lightGray)
        .edgesIgnoringSafeArea(.all)
}
```
### Custom Font Integration:
- Download the font file (.ttf) and place into project (make a new group/dir named "fonts" and paste the ttf file) 
- check the forn form launchscreen
- add info.plist entry on "Fonts provided by application" category, and add the fontName.ttf in the value param. Multiple fonts can be added there, as the category accept array.
- use font as : View(...).font(Font.custom("Font-Name", size: Int))
### Navigations:

```swift

@State var goToMain: Bool = false;

var body: some View {
    
    NavigationView {
    
        VStack {

            /**
            * Navigate on state change
            */
                
            NavigationLink(
                destination: MainView(),
                isActive: $goToMain,
                label: {
                    EmptyView()
                }
            )

            /**
            * Click Navigation
            */
                    
            HStack {
                    List {
                        Spacer()
                        Text("Register")
                            .overlay(
                                NavigationLink(
                                    destination: RegisterView()) {
                                    EmptyView();
                                }
                            )
                            .foregroundColor(blue)
                        Spacer()
                    }
            }
                    
        }
    }
    .navigationBarHidden(true)
}
```

### TabView:
```swift
import SwiftUI

struct MainView: View {
    var body: some View {
        TabView(selection: Selection ) {
            DashboardView().tabItem { Label(
                title: { Text("Label") },
                icon: { Image(systemName: "house.circle") })
            }
            ProfileView().tabItem { Label(
                title: { Text("Label") },
                icon: { Image(systemName: "person") })
            }
            SettingsView().tabItem {
                Label(
                    title: { Text("Label") },
                    icon: { Image(systemName: "gear") })
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Swift Language Checklists
- Delegation: var body: some View {}
- Lambda Syntax
- Generics
